The Joe Rogan experience.
How's Brooklyn.
It's grim. It's grim right now. It's,
I've lived in New York for the majority of my life. I love New York city.
And this is by far the grimmest I have ever seen it really.
I mean this winter,
because it's everything that the entire higher country is facing,
but it's the worst for COVID. It's also extremely cold.
Um, a lot of city services seem to have been impaired in one way or another.
The streets are covered in garbage and ice and dog.
And you can't pretty much the only thing that I can do to maintain my sanity
run, but everything, including the outdoor running track is covered in ice and.
And so it's just this dystopian,
frozen pandemic landscape where every, um,
local business that I loved is closing down. It's a dark time.
Yeah. Um, I hear that about Los Angeles. I saw a lot of it,
but I go got out early.
I saw the riding on the wall and I was looking to move in. May I just, once the,
once the lockdown got extended, once they're like,
we're just gonna lock down for two weeks to flatten the curve. I was like,
that makes sense.
And then here we are in April all the way through April here we are in may.
And then I'm like, oh, they're never gonna let us out of this. I was like,
and then the crime started happening and the, you know, it started,
it started getting dark and I was like, oh, we gotta get the outta here.
Homeless. The homeless thing was like flowers, blooming out of rocks,
outta cracks in the concretes, like more tense, tenses, tense, tense, tense,
tense, like Los Angeles filled with. Tenset like, you can't believe it.
Like when I tell people about it and then they go there, they're like, oh,
I thought you were exaggerating. Like, no, I was understating.
Like Los Angeles is overwhelmed with tents. It's crazy.
Like, you can't believe that on LaBrea.
They just allow people to set up tents everywhere. It's nuts. Well.
Yeah. What are people going to do? That's.
The question? What are people gonna do? Yeah. What,
where are you gonna put 'em do you have hospitals available for,
and a lot of those, the problem is a lot of those shelters,
they won't let 'em do drugs.
Yeah. And a lot of these people,
like I would rather rather be in a tent outside by the beach than be under your
thumb because Los Angeles doesn't get cold. You know?
I mean a cold day is 50, you know, it's a big deal. Right.
Just sleeping bag. You're outside. It's nice.
Yeah. It's really emphasized a lot of these economic divides, you know,
because everyone in New York just orders everything on Amazon.
Yeah.
So every apartment building and every nice part of New York receives a daily
shipment of every tenants stuff from Amazon a and then there's like a
secondary economy of people just going into all of the buildings and stealing
all of the packages.
Yeah. I've seen a lot of that. Yeah. I've seen a lot of ring videos. Doorbell,
camera videos of people stealing.
Oh yeah. It's almost comical. I mean,
I had one where I was loading my car with bags at
two in the morning,
on a Tuesday and in the lobby of my building for maybe
15 minutes, somebody just as soon as I walk around the corner,
someone goes and scoops everything up.
Yeah. It's, it's a, it's a wild time and I hope we're coming out of it.
I mean, right when I came to Austin, this is the first time I've, you know,
been on an airplane since the beginning of the pandemic.
You're the first person I've spoken to without a mask. No, really.
The first face I seen, did you feel weird coming in here? <laugh> but you,
you knew everyone was tested. No, no. Yeah.
No, I felt fine.
I felt I've just been very careful and because it's also cold in
New York, it just promotes this prison cell,
like lifestyle where I'm just sitting in my apartment reading and doing pushups
all day. Oh.
God. Yeah. Oh yeah. The dog thing is like, uh,
so people just don't clean up anymore. They just gave up, you know?
Yeah. It is. It's its,
there's this kind of tumble in character where things just start
to accumulate and then no one shovels the streets and then it gets easier.
It probably is harder to pick it up because there's just like mounting layers of
garbage everywhere. And it just starts to look increasingly disgusting. I mean,
maybe we will, we'll just, uh,
get out of this in a couple weeks and everything will be, oh yeah.
<Laugh> the problem that I don't think the people that shut everything down for
a year ever take into consideration is that people don't have the resources to
bounce back things don't bounce back on their own. Right. Peop if you,
you wanna start a business, it takes money.
Like it takes quite a bit of money to get a lease, to put the stock,
the shelves to hire employee. And when you've been out of business for a year,
you don't have any money. So you've probably used up all savings.
If you had any savings, try getting a loan when you don't have anything.
There's there's really,
there's no real logical path forward for a lot of these businesses in Los
Angeles, 75% of the restaurants are gone.
Oh yeah. I'm so worried about the restaurants in New York. Yeah. It's terrible.
It doesn't seem like it's even talked about sufficiently. No,
because in New York, in the winter time, I mean, they're really trying,
they're doing things that I,
would've never like truly extraordinary things like making these little heated
space gazebos that are covered in Mylar on the inside and they're. Yeah.
And you know, ultimately most people don't even really want to do that.
So then there's this weird conflict of,
is it moral to support these businesses because you want them to stay
in business or are you feeding into a system where people are subjecting
themselves to unsafe working conditions?
And is it actually imoral to go to restaurants? And of course,
people endlessly argue about that. It, um.
Well, per personal choices are not imoral right.
So if the people decide that they're willing to work there and they're masked up
and they feel safe working there isn't that better than not having a choice
to work there.
I guess the idea is that it, instead of people going on unemployment,
they are feel pressured to put themselves at risk, right. When they.
Really should be, uh, at home,
not potentially spreading coronavirus and ideally receiving some sort of
government assistance. Well,
all it's also like when does the government assistance run out?
Cuz it has run out for a lot of people.
There is no more unemployment for a lot of folks.
And then on top of that,
the way everything's been mismanaged is so terrible in so many ways.
Like why is it okay to be at target on top of people?
Why is it okay to be at Walgreens on top of people,
but it's not okay to have these mom pop stores open or retail.
Stores. Oh yeah. Or, you know, like I said,
I haven't been on an airplane until I came to see you. But I,
of course I see all these stories in the news that are like,
this guy went on an airplane and he took off his mask and they had to do an
emergency landing and they kicked him off the plane and everyone cheered.
And if you haven't been on a plane, you just kind of read that like, oh yeah.
Wow. That guy sounds like quite an. Good that they kicked him off the plane.
But then on the plane, I, then it, I hadn't even considered this.
Like what, what is done with snacks? What are the snack provisions?
Are there no more peanuts? Is there no water? And if it is served,
then everyone has to take off their masks.
So this is all just sort of like security theater,
because they still serve food and everyone unmasks simultaneously to eat.
So there's a period of at least 15 minutes where everyone on the plane is
unmasked by the doing of the actual airline.
Yeah. It's nonsense. It's full nonsense across.
The board. Well, I think people just don't know what to do. It's it's, you know,
they're aware that all these things are contradictory.
Everyone is trying to do their best. They're confused.
They don't understand it even to this day. Um.
People are trying not to be an. You know, when you wear a mask,
which you're basically saying is I'm not an, you know, I'm,
I'm gonna go around and I want you to feel like I care and want, you know,
I want you to feel all right, so I'm gonna wear a mask, but it's not. I mean,
maybe it's protecting somewhat. It's not, certainly not a hundred percent safe.
You know? Like it's protecting you against droplets, someone sneezes, but.
You're breathing. Oh yeah. The masking is definitely good.
I think that's pretty well established. But um,
I guess what I don't understand is the hypocrisy,
like if we have established that masking is good,
then we also have to not have snacks on the flight or water
or water. But yeah. So then what do.
You do? You're on top of each other,
you're sitting three people next to each other. I mean,
it's like literally the opposite of social distancing. It's incredibly intimate.
You don't even know these people. You're touching elbows with <affirmative>.
Yeah.
It's crazy. Yeah. I mean, and this is why when it started,
I was one of these people that, you know, I was thinking why, you know,
I work in media, I know the way the media blows everything out of proportion.
I remember swine flu.
I know that they sell newspapers by making everyone terrified.
This can't possibly be as bad as people think it is.
And I was sort of in COVID denial.
And I was also in the middle of filming the third season of my TV show.
So I was just sort of seduced by the momentum of production and didn't want it
to end. And uh, and people were saying, you know,
I don't think we can anymore. I think we have to stop. And I thought,
what is the world going to shut down? Yeah, I remember that is the,
like, this is unprecedented. Yeah. The, the world isn't going to shut down.
We're not going to be kept in our apartments.
It's just not conceivable that such a thing could happen. Cut to.
<Laugh> one year later, catch new episodes.
The Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog JRE videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.